Martin Eyong Nguta
Summary:
Versatile System Administration with over 5 years of work experience in troubleshooting, monitoring and administering system and network issues. Core knowledge in managing systems in an IT environment and in networking configurations.  

Requirement Overview:
Skillset Technology
Years worked
with skillset
Most recent year
worked with skillset
Candidate Self-Rating:
Junior, Intermediate, Senior
Networking
3 Years
2019
Intermediate
Linux
Over 3 Years
2019
Junior 
 
Professional Experience
NAIC/NIPR  :present
DeLliot system                                                                                                           Oct 2016 - June2019
System Administrator
Installed, Maintained and configured Redhat/CentOS Linux on both physical and virtual (VMWare and VirtualBox) environment. 
Installation and configuration of 3rd party software, services and Patch management which enhances the operations of the organization – (Apache, MySQL, PHP, etc.)
Installed and configured VMware ESX server instances for virtual server setup and deployment. Responsible for creating VMware virtual guests running Linux, Windows. 
Installed, maintained and fine-tuned the Apache-Tomcat server in Linux Platform  
Experience in creating Virtual and Physical server using kick start for RHEL. 
Experience in configuring NFS, SAMBA file server and administration for sharing of resources between Linux and Windows environments.   
Configuration and troubleshooting - LAN and TCP/IP issues. 
Setting of the LVM to manage the volume group, logical volume and physical partitions.  
Worked with the infrastructure monitoring tools Nagios. 
 
Cloud Blue - Phoenix, AZ                                                                                          Nov 2013 - Sep 2015
System Administrator 
Install, upgrade, and maintain RHEL and CentOS operating systems.  
Manage, install patches and other software packages using YUM and RPM.  
Setup NFS and Samba File sharing setup on Linux and Windows servers.  
Setup and configured Apache. 
Configuring and maintaining virtual server environment using VMWARE ESX, VCenter vSphere. 
Responsible for creating templates and deploying VM's in VMware environment.  
Installation, Configuration and support for RedHat Satellite Server and for upgrading and patching Linux Servers.  
Monitored trouble ticket queue to attend user and system calls, attended team meetings, change control meetings to update installation progress, and for upcoming changes in environment.  
RPM and YUM package installations, patch and another server management.  
Installation, Configuration, Administration and Troubleshooting of ESXi6.x, vSphere 6.0. 
Installation of ESXi server and creation of VMs and install different guest OS, Installation and administration for window server   
Provided stable build environments for product development.  
Creating and deleting and managing user accounts and managing user quotas on the Network. 
Configuring DNS, DHCP, NIS, NFS in Red Hat Linux & other Network Services, Linux kernel, memory upgrades and swaps area.  
Administration/Configuration of Print Servers/Clients in the Network, planning, configuration and maintenance of connectivity for servers as well TCP/IP configuration.  
Exceptional Customer care troubleshooting network issues servers through phone calls.
 
Rascomstar                                                                                                                  Jun 2009 - Apr 2012
Helpdesk Support
Assisted in maintaining daily IT support log and creating weekly summary sent to the management. 
Part of a team that was tasked to investigate the logistics of moving the company to a new network operating platform. 
Assisted in developing personnel training materials. 
Assisted company’s users from multiple locations who called with various IT issues. 
Installed and configured Windows computers, LAN, and printers/scanners. 
Maintained a peer-to-peer network of 15 computers used for proctored online testing purposes and supported business applications. Created custom macro solutions for business. 

Technical Skills:
Knowledge in testing and formatting devices such as servers, printers
Bash 
Office 365 Admin Tools
Redhat Enterprise 
Windows Server 2008, 2012, 2016    
NFS
Yum 
RPM
Desktop Support (Windows 7-10)
Help Desk Ticketing
VMware ESXi Experience
HTTP 
Tomcat 
Apache installation configuration and troubleshooting.
JIRA, Confluence
  
Education:
   
Kansas University in progress( BC)

Associate degree - Information Technology                                                               2014 - 2016
Penn Foster Technical Institute

Bachelor of Science - Concentration in Human Geography                                     2008 - 2011
University of Yaoundé I  

Certifications:
CompTIA Linux+ 
LPIC 1-Certification number: LPI000406748
Web Developer/Programmer